Julia: Welcome to Rationally Speaking, the podcast where we explore the borderlands between reason and nonsense. I'm your host, Julia Galef, and today it's my pleasure to speak with Toby Ord. He's a philosopher at Oxford University, and one of the founders of the effective altruist movement, which focuses on using reason and evidence to figure out how to do the most good. He's also the author, last year, of the book The Precipice: Existential Risk and The Future of Humanity. Here is my conversation with Toby Ord.
Julia: Toby, welcome to Rationally Speaking. It's so great to finally have you on.
Toby: It's wonderful to be here.
Julia: So Toby, you've recently published a fascinating and important book called The Precipice: Existential Risk and the Future of Humanity. That's going to be the main focus of our conversation today. So could you start by just laying out the basic idea in the book for my audience?
Toby: Yeah. It's fundamentally a book about humanity over deep time. It's about the 200,000 or 300,000 years of humanity that's come before us, over about 10,000 generations. And about how the history of humanity, even then, might still be just beginning. Because if we last as long as a typical species on this planet, then we should last for about another million years. And there's not much stopping us lasting for hundreds of millions of years, as some of the more long lived species have done. Or perhaps to outlast the earth itself. If we in the future are able to travel to other star systems where these stars have longer lifespans, or are younger stars, we could potentially carry on in this way for trillions of years. So the history of humanity may really just be beginning, and we could have a very bright future ahead of us, if trends in increasing longevity and prosperity continue. However, ultimately, humanity's history has been one of escalating power. And we finally came in the 20th century to the point where our power had grown so great that we could pose risks to our own continued existence. So I date this from 1945 when the first atomic bomb was detonated. And so with nuclear weapons, and then also now with climate change, we have technologies that are potentially so transformative to the environment around us, and so potentially able to cause great problems for us, that our own future is imperiled by these things. And so I think that this question of, "How do we adapt to being in a situation where we pose these threats?" Is a really central issue of our time. And we may be at crossroads. I call this time "the precipice," because we may be inching our way along a cliff ledge where there's a chance of an irrevocable failure.
Julia: Toby, you've been focused, for your entire career that I've been aware of, on doing good, on improving the world. But 10 years ago, you were more focused on more traditional ways of helping the world, like reducing poverty and disease. And now your focus is on improving the long term future of humanity, and navigating us past the precipice. I'm curious about what prompted that shift in focus for you, from near-term concrete problems, like poverty and disease, to the very long term. Was there a particular argument in the last 10 years that changed your focus? Or can you not pinpoint it that precisely?
Toby: Yeah, the biggest change ultimately was in 2003 when I came to Oxford. And Nick Bostrom had just got to Oxford as well. And we were put in touch with each other and soon turned to the issue of existential risk, an idea that Nick had just published a paper on at the time. And I thought this was pretty intriguing. That I was very focused on global poverty as one of the biggest issues in the world, and Nick made a strong case that actually protecting humanity's future from existential risks was an even stronger priority for humanity. And I didn't entirely buy it, but I thought it was very plausible and really important idea...